= PomoTodo

PomoToDo is a task application based on the pomodoro technique for pymetrics.

=== Features

* View a list of personal to-do items

* Create, update, and delete to-do items

* View number of Pomodoro’s associated with each to-do items

* Start a Pomodoro (25 minute timer) for a To-Do item

* Alert when Pomodoro is over


=== Get Started

PomTodo something live by clicking here[http://pomo-todo.herokuapp.com]

or

PomoTodo something locally by:

1. Clone repo

2. cd into directory

3. Run bundle install. Run npm install. Run rake db migrate

4. Run rails s

5. Go to local host

=== Stack

Languages: Ruby and JavaScript
Database: SQLite and PostgreSQL
Framework: React with jQuery

=== Choices/Tradeoffs

==== Ruby v. Python

My skills in Ruby are much stronger than my skills in Python. Given the time constraints and the importance of the project, I opted to program in my strongest language between the two. Moreover, Ruby on Rails is fantastic for creating and deploying a web application quickly. 

==== React with jQuery

React components don’t define transition between states. It only renders when it changes which makes it extremely responsive and eliminates the task of manually tweaking the DOM.  The React/Flux one-way data transfer structure is great for adding, deleting, and keeping track of tasks.

==== SQLite and PostgreSQL

I’m deploying through Heroku which uses PostgreSQL. I use SQLite locally because it’s very lightweight which is great for simple web applications. 

